14.6 Printing
Printing a document on Linux is a multistage process.
It goes like this:
1. The program doing the printing usually converts the document into PostScript form. This step is optional.
2. The program sends the document to a print server.
3. The print server receives the document and places it on a print queue.
4. When the document's turn in the queue arrives, the print server sends the document to a print filter.
5. If the document is not in PostScript form, a print filer might perform a conversion.
6. If the destinatino printer does not understand PostScript, a printer driver converts the document to a printer-compatible format.
7. The printer driver adds optional instructions to the document, such as paper tray and duplexing options.
8. The print server uses a backend to send the document to the printer.

The most confusing part of this process is why so much revolves around PostScript.
PostScript is  actually a programming language, so when you print a file using it, you're sending a program to the printer.
PostScript serves as a standard for printing in Unix-like systems, much as the .tar format serves as an archiving standard.
(Some applications now use PDF output, but this is relatively easy to convert.)
We'll talk more about the print format later; first, let's look at the queuing system.

14.6.1 CUPS
The standard priting system in Linux is CUPS (http://www.cups.org/), which is the same system used on Mac OS X.
The CUPS server daemon is called cupsd, and you can use the lpr command as a simple client to send files to the daemon.
One significant feature of CUPS is that it implements Internet Print Protocol (IPP), a system that allows for HTTP-like transactions among clients and servers on TCP port 631.
In fact, if you have CUPS running on your system, you can probably connect to http://localhost:631/ to see your current configuration and check on any printer jobs.
Most network printers and print servers support IPP, as does Windows, which can make setting up remote printers a relatively simple task.
You probably won't be able to administer the system from the web interface, because the default setup isn't very secure.
Instead, your distributions likely has a graphical settings interface to add and modify printers.
These tools manipulate the configuration files, normally found in /etc/cups.
It's usually best to let these tools do the work for you, because configuration can be complicated.
And even if you do run into a problem and need to configure manually, it's usually best to create a printer using the graphical tools so that you have somewhere to start.

14.6.2 Format Conversion and Print Filters
Many printers, including nearly all low-end models, do not understand PostScript or PDF.
In order for Linux to support one of these printers, it must convert documetns to a format specific to the printer.
CUPS sends the document to a Raster Image Processor (RIP) to produce a bitmap.
The RIP almost always uses the Ghostscript(gs) program to do most of the real work, but it's somewhat complicaetd because the bitmap must fit the format of the printer.
Therefore, the printer drivers that CUPS uses consult the PostScript Printer Definition (PPD) file for the specific printer to figure out settings such as resolution and paper sizes.
