14.2 A Closer Look at the X Window System
The X Window System (http://www.x.org/) has histoircally been very large, with the base distribution including the X server, client support libraries, and clients.
But to the emergence of desktop environments such as GNOME and KDE, the role of the X distribution has changed over time, with the focus now more on the core server that manages rendering and input devices, as well as a simplified client library.

The X server is easy to identify on your system.
It's called x.
Check for it in a process listing: You'll usually see it running with a number of options like this:

/usr/bin/X :0 -auth /var/run/lightdm/root/:0 -nolisten tcp vt7 -novtswitch

The :0 shown here is called the display, aan identifier representing one or more monitors that you access with a common keyboard and/or mouse.
Usually, the display just corresponds to the single monitor your attach to your computer, but you can put multiple monitors under the same display.
When using an X session, the DISPLAY environment variable is set to the display identifier.

Note:
Display can be further subdivided into screens, such as :0.0 and :0.1, but this has become increasingly rare because X extensions, such as RandR, can combine multiple monitors inot one larger virutal screen.

On Linux, an X server runs on a virtual terminal.
In this example, the vt7 argument tells us that it's been told to run on /dev/tty7 (normally, the server starts on the first virtual terminal available).
You can run more than one X server at a time on Linux by running them on separate virtual terminals, but if you do, each server needs a unique display identifier.
you can switch between the servers with the CTRL-ALT-FN keys

14.2.1 Display Manager
You normally don't start the X server with a command line because starting the server doesn't define any clients that are supposed to run tn the server.
If you start the server by itself, you'll just get a blank screen.
Instead, the most common way to start an X server is with a display manager, a program that start the server and puts a login box on the screen.
When you log in, the display mananger starts a set of clients, such as a window manager and file manager, so that you can start to use the machine.
There are many different display managers, such as gdm (for GNOME) and kdm (for KDE).
The lightdm in the argument list fo the X server invocation above is a cross-platform display manager meant to be able to start GNOME or KDE sessions.
To start an X session from a virtual console instead of using a display manager, you acn run the startx or xinit commmand.
However, the session you get will likely be a very simple one that looks completely unlike that of a display manager, because the mechanics and startup files are differen.
The lightdm in the argument list fo the X server invocation above is a cross-platform display manager meant to be able to start GNOME or KDE sessions.
To start an X session from a virtual console instead of using a display manager, you acn run the startx or xinit commmand.
However, the session you get will likely be a very simple one that looks completely unlike that of a display manager, because the mechanics and startup files are different.

14.2.2 Network Transparency
One feature of X is network transparency.
Because clients talk to the server using a protocol, it's possible to run clients across a network to a server running on a different machine directly over the network, with the X server listening for TCP connections on port 6000.
Clients connectins to that port could authenticate, then send windows to the server.
Unfortuantely, this method does not normally offer any encryption and is insecure as a resutl.
To close this hole, most distribuitons now disable the X servers's network listener (with the -nolisten tcp option to the server, as seen on page 300).
However, you can still run X clients from a remote machine with SSH tunneling, as described in Chapter 10, by connecting the X server's Unix domain socket to a socket on the remote machine.
