8.13 Further Topics

One reason there are so many tools to measure resource utilization is that a wide array of resource types are consumed in many different ways.
In this chapter, you've seen CPU, memory, and I/O as system resources being consumed by processes, threads inside processes, and the kernel.
The other reason that the tools exist is taht the resources are limited and, for a system to perform well, its components must strive to consume fewer resources.
In the past, many users shared a machine, so it was necessary to make sure that each user had a fair share of resources.
Now, although a modern deskto computer may not have multiple users, it still has many processes competing for resources.
Likewise, high-performance network servers require intense system resource monitoring.
Further topics in resource monitoring and performance analysis include the following:

sar (System Activity Reporter) The sar package has many of the continuous monitoring capabilities of vmstat, but it also records resource utilization over time.
With sar, you can look back at a particular time to see what your system was doing. This is handy when you have a past system even that you want to analyze.

acct (Process accounting) the acct package can record the processes and their resource utilization.

Quotas  You can limit many system resources on a per-process or per-user basis.
        See /etc/security/limits.conf(5) manual page.
        This is PAM feature, so processes are subject to this only if they've been started from something that uses PAM (such as a login shell).
        You can also limit the amount of disk space that a user can use with the quota system.

If you're interested in systems tuning and performance in particular, Systems Performance: Entreprise and the CLoud by Brendan Gregg (Prentice Hall, 2013) goes into much more detail.
We also haven't yet touched on the many, many tools that can be used to monitor network resource utilization.
To use thhose, you first have to understand how the network works. That's where we're headed next.
