4.2.6)  Filesystem Mount Options
There are many way to change the mount command behavior, as is often necessary with removable media or when perofming system maintenance.
In fact, the total number of mount options is staggering.
The extensive mount(8) manual is a good reference, but it's hard to know where to start and what you can fafely ignore.
You'll see the most useful options in this section.
  Options fall into two rough categories: general and filesystem-specific ones.
  General options include -t for specifying the filesystem type (as mentioned earlier).
  In contrast, a filesystem-specific option pertains only to certain filesystem types.
To activate a filesystem option, use the -o switch followed by the option.
For example, -o norock turns off Rock Ridge extensions on an ISO 9660 file-system, but it has no meaning for any other kind of filesystem.

Short Options
The most important general option are these:
 -r The -r option mounts the filesystem in read-only mode.
 This has a number of uses, from write protection to bootstrapping.
 You don't need to specify this option when accessing a read-only device susch as a CD-ROM; the system will do it for you (and will also tell you about the read-only status).

 -n The -n option ensure that mount does not try to update the system runtime mount database, /etc/mtab.
 The mount operation fail when it cannot write to this file, which is important at boot time because the root partition (and, therefore, the system mount database) is read-only at first.
 You'll also find this option handy when trying to fix a system problem in single-user mode, because the system mount database may not be available at the time.

 -t The -t type option specifies the filesystem type.

Long Options
Short options like -r are too limited for the ever-increasing number of mount options; there are too few letters in the alphabet to accommodate all possible options.
Short options are also troublesome because it is difficult to determine an option's meanning based on a single letter.
Many general options and all filesystem-specific options use a lnoger, more flexible option format.
  To use lnog options with mount on the command line, start with -o and supply some keywords. Here' a comlete example, with the long options following -o:

#mount -t vfat /dev/hda1 /dos -o ro,conv=auto

The two long options here are ro and conv-auto.
The ro option specifies read-only mode and is the same as the -r short option.
The conv-auto option tells the kernel to automatically convert certain text files from the DOS newline format to the Unix style (you'll see more shortly).
  The most usefult long options are these:

  exec, noexec Enables or disables execution of programs on the filesystem.
  suid, nosuid Enables or disables setuid programs.
  ro Mounnts the filesystem in read-only mode (as does the -r short option).
  rw  Mounts the filesystem in read-write mode.

  conv=rule (FAT-base filesystems) Converts the newline characters in fiels based on rule, which can be binary, text, or auto.
  The default is binary, which disables any character translation.
  To treat all files as text, use text.
  The auto setting converts files based on their extension.
  For example, a ;jpg files get no special treatment, but a .txt file does.
  Be careful with this option because it can damage files.
  Consider using it in read-only mode.
